Linux Commands :

1.pwd
Use the pwd command to find out the path of the current working directory (folder) you’re in.
syntax : pwd
2.cd
To navigate through the Linux files and directories, use the cd command.
syntax : cd bin
	cd .. (with two dots) to move one directory up
	cd to go straight to the home folder
	cd- (with a hyphen) to move to your previous directory
3.ls
This command lists all the contents in the current working directory.
syntax : ls
	ls -R will list all the files in the sub-directories as well
	ls -a will show the hidden files
	ls -al will list the files and directories with detailed information like the permissions, size, owner, etc.
4.cat
This command can read, modify or concatenate text files. It also displays file contents.
syntax : cat file.txt
	cat > filename creates a new file
5.cp
Use the cp command to copy files from the current directory to a different directory
syntax : cp pic.jpg /home/username/Pictures
6.mv
The primary use of the mv command is to move files, although it can also be used to rename files
syntax : mv file1 file
7.mkdir
Use mkdir command to make a new directory
syntax : mkdir jfrog
8.rmdir
If you need to delete a directory, use the rmdir command
syntax : rmdir jfrog
9.rm
The rm command is used to delete directories and the contents within them
syntax : rm jfrog
10.touch
The touch command allows you to create a blank new file through the Linux command line
syntax : touch /home/username/Documents/Web.html (to create an HTML file entitled Web under the Documents directory)
11.grep
It lets you search through all the text in a given file
syntax : grep linux linux.txt
12.sudo
Short for “SuperUser Do”, this command enables you to perform tasks that require administrative or root permissions
syntax : sudo useradd nikhil
13.head
The head command is used to view the first lines of any text file
syntax : head -n linux.txt
14.tail
This one has a similar function to the head command, but instead of showing the first lines
syntax : tail -n linux.txt
15.diff
The diff command compares the contents of two files line by line
syntax : diff file1.txt file2.txt
16.tar
The tar command is the most used command to archive multiple files into a tarball — a common Linux file format that is similar to zip format, with compression being optional.
syntax : tar -xvf myarchive.tar
17.chmod
chmod is another Linux command, used to change the read, write, and execute permissions of files and directories
syntax : chmod options permissions file name
chmod u=rwx,g=rx,o=r myfile
	the user can read, write, and execute it;
	members of your group can read and execute it; and
	others may only read it
chmod 754 myfile
	4 stands for "read",
	2 stands for "write",
	1 stands for "execute", and
	0 stands for "no permission
18.chown
In Linux, all files are owned by a specific user. The chown command enables you to change or transfer the ownership of a file to the specified username
For instance, chown linuxuser2 file.ext will make linuxuser2 as the owner of the file.ext
19.jobs
jobs command will display all current jobs along with their statuses. A job is basically a process that is started by the shell
20.kill
If you have an unresponsive program, you can terminate it manually by using the kill command
21.ping
Use the ping command to check your connectivity status to a server. For example, by simply entering ping google.com, the command will check whether you’re able to connect to Google and also measure the response time
22.wget
You can even download files from the internet with the help of the wget command
syntax : wget followed by the download link
23.uname
The uname command, short for Unix Name, will print detailed information about your Linux system like the machine name, operating system, kernel, and so on
24.top
As a terminal equivalent to Task Manager in Windows, the top command will display a list of running processes and how much CPU each process uses
25.history
When you’ve been using Linux for a certain period of time, you’ll quickly notice that you can run hundreds of commands every day. As such, running history command is particularly useful if you want to review the commands you’ve entered before
26.man
Confused about the function of certain Linux commands? Don’t worry, you can easily learn how to use them right from Linux’s shell by using the man command. For instance, entering man tail will show the manual instruction of the tail command
27.echo
This command is used to move some data into a file. For example, if you want to add the text, “Hello, my name is John” into a file called name.txt, you would type echo Hello, my name is John >> name.txt
28.zip
Use the zip command to compress your files into a zip archive
29.unzip
Use the unzip command to extract the zipped files from a zip archive
30.hostname
If you want to know the name of your host/network simply type hostname. Adding a -I to the end will display the IP address of your network
31.useradd
Useradd is used to create a new user, while passwd is adding a password to that user’s account. To add a new person named John type, useradd John and then to add his password type, passwd 123456789
32.userdel
To remove a user is very similar to adding a new user. To delete the users account type, userdel UserName
  